Add news post for openfe v1.12 release (#180)
OpenFreeEnergy/openfreeenergy.github.io: _posts/2026-06-29-release-v1.12.md

---
layout: post
title: "openfe v1.12: An ecosystem-wide usability drive"
categories: science update
---

We are pleased to announce the release of **openfe** version 1.12!

This release is anchored by a usability drive across the whole OpenFE ecosystem, alongside automated structural analysis for SepTop and a net charge transformation update to the Hybrid Topology Protocol for membrane-bound proteins.

Please see below for some highlights and see the [Changelog][] for more details.

## Ecosystem Usability Drive

This release pairs `openfe` with the latest versions of [cinnabar][], [konnektor][], [kartograf][], [LOMAP][], and [openfe-analysis][], each shipped as part of a wider push to improve usability and documentation across the ecosystem:

- **[cinnabar][]** (v0.6.0): a documentation rewrite with extensive tutorials, new plots and analyses drawn from our industry benchmarking paper, and support for pIC50 values in absolute predictions and plots.

> - **[konnektor][]** (v0.4.0): a full documentation overhaul, closer alignment with `openfe` (which now uses `konnektor` under the hood), critical bug fixes, and stronger test coverage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **[konnektor][]** (v0.4.0): a full documentation overhaul, critical bug fixes, and stronger test coverage.
```
openfe has been using konnektor under the hood as of [openfe v1.5.0](https://docs.openfree.energy/en/latest/CHANGELOG.html#v1-5-0) and konnektor 0.3.0 - I hesitate to include it here in case it confuses people.

- **[kartograf][]** (v2.0): updated defaults informed by our industry benchmark, plus an overhaul of documentation, structure, API, and guides.

> - **[LOMAP][]** (v3.3.0): dropped the `gufe` dependency and deprecated broken components and its CLI, with API and user-guide documentation to follow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **[LOMAP][]** (v3.3.0): dropped `gufe` as a dependency and deprecated broken components and the CLI. Documentation updates to the API and user guides are anticipated in the next release of LOMAP.
```
